prototypes/form-wizard/README.md, before:

# FOIA Form Wizard Prototype

A Jekyll template for prototyping [US Web Design
Standards][uswds-site] based websites.


## Prerequisites

This site uses [Jeykll][jekyll-site] to build and serve the website
and [npm][npm-site] to manage dependencies.

- Install npm with [Node][node-download]
- Install [Bundler](https://bundler.io/) with `gem install bundler`


## Usage

Install the dependencies and start the development server.

    $ bundle install
    $ npm install
    $ npm run build
    $ npm run serve

Open your browser to [http://localhost:4000/](http://localhost:4000/).

## FOIA contact data

The `agencies.js` file is built and checked into git. If you need to rebuild it,
you will need to disable the `safe` setting in `_config.yml` and make sure
you have the repo described below.

By default the build process will assume that the repo at git@github.com:18F/2015-foia.git
is checked out at the same directory level as the foia-recommendations repo. You can
override that default by setting the `FOIA_AGENCY_DIR` environment variable
to wherever you have `2015-foia/contacts/data` located on your local file system.

## Deployment

This prototype is deployed as a static application to
[cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov/) behind Basic authentication. Team members should
request the username/passphrase from their teammates.

The Basic authentication is configured via `Staticfile.auth` and is configured
in our continuous deployment pipeline. The `$STATICAUTHFILE` secret environment
variable must be set. To create the `$STATICAUTHFILE` hash, use `mkpasswd` or
`htpasswd` as available.

1. `mkpasswd -m sha-512 "your secret passphrase"`
   This creates a hash that looks something like
   `$6$asdfjkl$ljklsajfkldsjakfldjaklfjdskalfdsaljfkdlsaajfkdlsaf`
2. Prepend the hash with the username and `:`.
   `userbob:$6$asdfjkl$ljklsajfkldsjakfldjaklfjdskalfdsaljfkdlsaajfkdlsaf`
3. Set `$STATICAUTHFILE` to this value. Be sure to shell escape it as
   appropriate. In CircleCI, this means escaping all the `$` characters as `\$`.
   `userbob:\$6\$asdfjkl\$ljklsajfkldsjakfldjaklfjdskalfdsaljfkdlsaajfkdlsaf`


[jekyll-site]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[node-download]: https://nodejs.org/en/download/
[npm-site]: https://www.npmjs.com/
[uswds-site]: https://standards.usa.gov/

Commit message:

Create make target for building agencies.js (#83)
* Include department and agency abbreviations in the search-able name.
* Pull build code into its own script with its own make target.

prototypes/form-wizard/README.md, after:

# FOIA Form Wizard Prototype

A Jekyll template for prototyping [US Web Design
Standards][uswds-site] based websites.


## Prerequisites

This site uses [Jeykll][jekyll-site] to build and serve the website
and [npm][npm-site] to manage dependencies.

- Install npm with [Node][node-download]
- Install [Bundler](https://bundler.io/) with `gem install bundler`


## Usage

Install the dependencies and start the development server.

    $ bundle install
    $ npm install
    $ npm run build
    $ npm run serve

Open your browser to [http://localhost:4000/](http://localhost:4000/).

## FOIA contact data

The `agencies.js` file is built and checked into git. If you need to rebuild it,
make sure you have the repo described below.

By default the build process will assume that the repo at git@github.com:18F/2015-foia.git
is checked out at the same directory level as the foia-recommendations repo. You can
override that default by setting the `FOIA_AGENCY_DIR` environment variable
to wherever you have `2015-foia/contacts/data` located on your local file system.

When you have the contact YAML files available from the repository, you can build `agencies.js`
with:

	$ make agencies

and then commit the changes.

## Deployment

This prototype is deployed as a static application to
[cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov/) behind Basic authentication. Team members should
request the username/passphrase from their teammates.

The Basic authentication is configured via `Staticfile.auth` and is configured
in our continuous deployment pipeline. The `$STATICAUTHFILE` secret environment
variable must be set. To create the `$STATICAUTHFILE` hash, use `mkpasswd` or
`htpasswd` as available.

1. `mkpasswd -m sha-512 "your secret passphrase"`
   This creates a hash that looks something like
   `$6$asdfjkl$ljklsajfkldsjakfldjaklfjdskalfdsaljfkdlsaajfkdlsaf`
2. Prepend the hash with the username and `:`.
   `userbob:$6$asdfjkl$ljklsajfkldsjakfldjaklfjdskalfdsaljfkdlsaajfkdlsaf`
3. Set `$STATICAUTHFILE` to this value. Be sure to shell escape it as
   appropriate. In CircleCI, this means escaping all the `$` characters as `\$`.
   `userbob:\$6\$asdfjkl\$ljklsajfkldsjakfldjaklfjdskalfdsaljfkdlsaajfkdlsaf`


[jekyll-site]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[node-download]: https://nodejs.org/en/download/
[npm-site]: https://www.npmjs.com/
[uswds-site]: https://standards.usa.gov/
