# Glossary

The glossary provides definitions for our team to have a shared language around
FOIA. This is mostly for use within our team.

See also https://www.foia.gov/glossary.html


##### Chief FOIA Officer

The person with agency-wide responsibility for oversight and support to FOIA
programs. The position is required by the Freedom of Information Act and
includes several additional responsibilities.


##### cms

See [case management-system](#case-management-system).


##### case management system

A system (usually electronic) to track the workflow of individual FOIA requests
(cases). Each agency can have their own case management system they use to
triage, assign, track, and fulfill requests. Agencies may use case management
systems for as much or as little of the FOIA fulfillment process as they wish.


##### disclosability

The degree to which a piece of information is disclosable. Often used when
evaluating what information in a record is disclosable or what must be redacted.


##### FOIA

The Freedom of Information Act which provides that any person has a right,
enforceable in court, to obtain access to federal agency records, except to the
extent that any portions of such records are protected from public disclosure by
one of nine exemptions or by one of three special law enforcement record
exclusions.


##### FOIA Public Liaison

Responsible for acting as the public contact for addressing concerns of
requesters related to FOIA administration. Designated by the Chief FOIA Officer.


##### PII

Personally Identifiable Information.

> Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity,
> either alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information
> that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.

_-- [GSA Privacy Program](https://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104256)_

The definition of PII is often context specific and requires a case-by-case
assessment. Sometimes when combined with other information, non-PII can become
PII.


##### portal

A gateway to other systems or information but may not have any functionality or
information on its own.


##### proactive disclosure


##### release to three, release to all

Per the FOIA 1996 amendment, if a set of records is requested three times, the
FOIA indicates the documents should be made permanently public, which forms the
basis of the [“reading room”
provision](https://www.justice.gov/oip/blog/foia-post-2003-foia-counselor-qa-frequently-requested-records).


##### requester

A person or organization making or about to make a FOIA request.


##### response

A completed FOIA request which may contain a letter describing the contents of
the response, documents related to the request, and instructions for appeal.


##### responsive document
